.TH FURL 1 "2026" "furl" "furl Manual"
.SH NAME
furl, furls \- a human-friendly command-line HTTP client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B furl
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIMETHOD\fR] \fIURL\fR [\fIREQUEST_ITEM\fR ...]
.br
.B furls
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIMETHOD\fR] \fIURL\fR [\fIREQUEST_ITEM\fR ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B furl
is a command-line HTTP client with an expressive, human-friendly syntax. It
sends requests, prints readable responses, and can format and reformat JSON
and XML bodies.
.PP
.B furls
is identical to
.B furl
except that a URL without a scheme defaults to
.B https://
instead of
.BR http:// .
.SH POSITIONAL ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I METHOD
The HTTP method (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, ...). When omitted it is guessed:
POST when the request carries data, otherwise GET.
.TP
.I URL
The request URL. A missing scheme defaults to http:// (or https:// for
.BR furls );
a leading colon abbreviates localhost, e.g. \fB:3000/path\fR.
.TP
.I REQUEST_ITEM
A key/value pair that shapes the request. The separator selects its role:
.RS
.IP "\fBName:value\fR" 14
HTTP header
.IP "\fBName;\fR"
Header with an empty value
.IP "\fBname==value\fR"
URL query parameter
.IP "\fBname=value\fR"
Data field (string)
.IP "\fBname:=value\fR"
Raw JSON data field
.IP "\fBname@file\fR"
File upload form field
.IP "\fBname=@file\fR, \fBname:=@file\fR, \fBName:@file\fR, \fBname==@file\fR"
Value read from a file
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-j, \-\-json
Serialize data items as a JSON object (the default).
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-form
Serialize data items as form fields.
.TP
.B \-\-multipart
Send a multipart/form-data request even without files.
.TP
.B \-\-raw \fITEXT\fR
Pass raw request data without extra processing.
.TP
.B \-x, \-\-compress
Compress the request body with Deflate; repeat to force.
.TP
.B \-\-pretty \fI{all,colors,format,none}\fR
Control output processing. Defaults to
.B all
on a terminal and
.B none
when redirected.
.TP
.B \-\-format\-options \fIOPTS\fR
Tune output formatting, e.g. \fBjson.indent:2\fR, \fBheaders.sort:false\fR.
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-print \fIWHAT\fR
Select exchange parts: \fBH\fR request headers, \fBB\fR request body,
\fBh\fR response headers, \fBb\fR response body, \fBm\fR response metadata.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Print the whole exchange. Give twice to include response metadata.
.TP
.B \-o, \-\-output \fIFILE\fR
Write output to FILE instead of the terminal.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-download
Save the response body to a file (wget-like).
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-continue
Resume an interrupted download (requires \fB\-\-download\fR and \fB\-\-output\fR).
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-auth \fIUSER[:PASS]\fR
Credentials for the selected auth type.
.TP
.B \-A, \-\-auth\-type \fI{basic,bearer,digest}\fR
The authentication mechanism (default: basic).
.TP
.B \-F, \-\-follow
Follow 30x redirects.
.TP
.B \-\-max\-redirects \fIN\fR
The redirect limit used with \fB\-\-follow\fR (default 30).
.TP
.B \-\-timeout \fISECONDS\fR
Give up when the connection is idle for this many seconds.
.TP
.B \-\-check\-status
Reflect the HTTP status in the exit code (3/4/5 for 3xx/4xx/5xx).
.TP
.B \-\-verify \fIyes|no|PATH\fR
Control TLS certificate verification (default: yes).
.TP
.B \-\-ssl \fI{tls1.2,tls1.3}\fR
Force a specific TLS protocol version.
.TP
.B \-\-offline
Build and print the request without sending it.
.TP
.B \-I, \-\-ignore\-stdin
Never read piped standard input as the request body.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Show the full help and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show the program version and exit.
.PP
For every \fB\-\-OPTION\fR there is also a \fB\-\-no\-OPTION\fR that reverts it
to its default value.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
A generic error, connection failure, or usage error.
.TP
.B 2
The request timed out.
.TP
.B 3, 4, 5
With \fB\-\-check\-status\fR: the final response was 3xx, 4xx, or 5xx.
.TP
.B 6
Too many redirects.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B FURL_CONFIG_DIR
Override the configuration directory (default \fB~/.config/furl\fR).
.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.config/furl/config.json
Configuration, including \fBdefault_options\fR prepended to every invocation.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR furl-manager (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Karthik Vinayan
